---
title: Grit -June 02, 2022
description:
date: 2022-05-30
tags: Diary
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

I learned this word from my old boss who I consider a true leader in my life. A leader that I admire inspires me to be a leader. 

## Leadership 101: Feel Your Own Heart

Leadership is about how much you care. Before you can feel how much you care, you need to feel your own heart. That's the first step. 

## Leadership 102: Identify Your Value

Once you  trained yourself to feel your own heart, you start to notice some of situations where you're motivated the most. You notice there are patterns. You're smart and extract to concrete words. That's called value. Value is something we can't physcially see but you know they are important.

## Leadership 103: Know Your Type

Type is used to categorise stuff. Like in supermarket, there are sections for meat, vegetable, wine. We have different personalities and communication type. For example, I'm action-based leadership. Control Type. Hence I love coding. Code can give me a full control. If I couldn't see this is going anywhere, I would lose focus. It's weakness. Sometimes, this  type of leadership would be recognised as implusive trait. As of writing, I finished Top Boy not long ago. Sully is the typical implusive guy rather  than the calculated leader, Dashane .

Once I know my shortcoming, I'd start to slow myself down and allow more time for visioning and think more and plan more. I know I'd do it anyway. Also, I'd comprise to collaborate with the opposite type of leadership style. 

## Leadership 104 : Manage Inner  Critic

We all have inner critics. I'm a judge who constantly judged myself that "You're a failure." However, I learned to say No to them, they know nothing about me, my life and how good I am , how excellent I'd be. "They" those judges are ignorant crowd. 

## Leadership 105: What you've seen and what you want to do

I think sometimes we don't watch ourself except in the morning brushing teeth  and wash faces. Speaking to yourself in the mirror for what you've seen, good things and bad things. It's a practice, a skill to be self appreciate rather than self critic. What you excpet the person to do is truly what you want from life.

I'd tell myself to continue to  figure out what life I could live in. I do want to start my own business but not a service-based concultancy. I'd make stuff. I'd make product. I'd develop a passive income relying on software development...


