---
title: FT Interview -June 01, 2022
description:
date: 2022-05-31
tags: Diary
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

> life is like the combination of Lego and Sudoku: we first write down a little bit of thought, like Lego blocks, and then vacate them to the right place, just like Sudoku solving

I had an interview at Financial Times. I gonna be honest, purely it's their fancy office that attracted me the most. Besides, it's FINANCIAL TIMES! Depsite all my career and work have been built upon data and software, it's the first time that I could be so close home and I'd love to develop my business along the way as I believe this is the way out of the rat race.

I worked for a chairty as a freelancer. They have too many orders coming in each day. The training they provided was all for manually click-and-save task. I meant, this isn't a nice way to spend your time. You input 3 hours to complete 60 orders, those 3 hours won't never come back to you. And I input  3 hours to write a piece of software, and it'd contine to grow as I invest more hours into it. This is a solution to all. I aim to create a piece of software that works at any platform, where I read the introductionary article [HappyCoding](https://happycoding.io/about/) said "The philosophy of Java is you write once then works anywhere". I absolutely love this idea. But the question would be: how I could possibly learn quickly enough in order to get jobs done?

I understand if I straightforwardly jump into coding at sites like codecademy or others, it's doomed to fail. My aim is to write a piece of software for a chairty. The initial thought would be that "I just learn pieces of knowledge and implement them right after I understand concepts" 

yes and no. "Yes" means that I should have done this everyday, because I will fall into a trap of inaction. No means that I should have planned. 